Document triggers on distributed hypertables (#595)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/how-to-guides/hypertables/distributed-hypertables.md

access node then writes each batch of rows to the correct data node.

### Using the INSERT function on distributed hypertables
When you use the [`INSERT`][insert] statement on a distributed
hypertable, the access node tries to convert that into a more
efficient [`COPY`][copy] between the access node and the data nodes

> (see below). However, this optimized plan won't work if the `INSERT`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, this optimized plan won't work if the `INSERT`
```

> statement has a `RETURNING` clause and the distributed hypertable has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
statement has a `RETURNING` clause, and the distributed hypertable has
```

triggers that could alter the returned data. In that case, the planner
falls back to a less efficient plan that uses a multi-row prepared
statement on each data node and then splits the original insert
statement across these sub-statements. You can run an
[`EXPLAIN`][explain] on the `INSERT` to view the plan that the access

> node picks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
node chooses.
```

For the non-optimized plan, the access node can buffer up to
`timescaledb.max_insert_batch_size` number of rows (default 1000) per
data node before a prepared statement's limit is reached and gets
flushed to the data node. For example, if there are 10,000 rows in the
original `INSERT` statement and three data nodes with the default

> insert batch size, the `INSERT` would require around three full

Reviewer: ```suggestion
insert batch size, the `INSERT` requires around three full
```

`INSERT`, although it doesn't support features like conflict handling (`ON
CONFLICT` clause) that are used for [upserts][upserts].

## Using triggers on distributed hypertables

> Triggers on distributed hypertables work similar to triggers on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Triggers on distributed hypertables work in a similar way to triggers on
```

regular hypertables, including having the same limitations. However,
due to data and tables being distributed across many data nodes, there
are some notable differences compared to regular hypertables:

* Row-level triggers fire on the data node where a row is inserted
* Statement-level triggers fire once on each affected node,
  including the access node
* A replication factor greater than 1 further increases the number of

>   nodes that a trigger fires on (i.e., each replica node fires the
>   trigger)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  nodes that a trigger fires on. This is because each replica node fires the
  trigger.
```

### Creating triggers
A trigger is created on distributed hypertables with [`CREATE
TRIGGER`][create-trigger] as normal. The trigger is created on each
data node, including the function that the trigger executes. However,
any other functions or objects referenced in the trigger need to be
present on all nodes prior to creating the trigger. To create a
function or other referenced object on all data nodes, use the

> [`distributed_exec`][dist_exec] procedure.
> 
> 
> ```sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`distributed_exec`][dist_exec] procedure:
```sql
```

-- Create the trigger function on the access node
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION my_trigger_func()
	RETURNS TRIGGER LANGUAGE PLPGSQL AS
$BODY$
BEGIN
	RAISE NOTICE 'trigger fired';
	RETURN NEW;
END
$BODY$;

-- Create the trigger
CREATE TRIGGER my_trigger
	AFTER INSERT ON hyper
	FOR EACH ROW
	EXECUTE FUNCTION my_trigger_func();

> ```

Reviewer: It would be better if you could split these up, and keep the comments out of the text box.

### Row-level triggers

> Row-level triggers execute on the data node where the data is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Row-level triggers are executed on the data node where the data is
```

> stored since `BEFORE` and `AFTER` row triggers need access to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stored, because `BEFORE` and `AFTER` row triggers need access to the
```

> stored data. The chunks on the access node do not actually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stored data. The chunks on the access node do not
```

contain any data and therefore also have no triggers.

### Statement-level triggers

> Statement-level triggers will execute once on each node affected by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Statement-level triggers execute once on each node affected by
```

the statement. This includes the access node and any affected data
nodes. For instance, if a distributed hypertable includes three data
nodes, an `INSERT` of two rows of data executes a statement-level
insert trigger on the access node and at most two of the data nodes
(if the two rows go to different data nodes).

> To avoid processing the trigger multiple times, it is recommended that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid processing the trigger multiple times, we recommend that
```

> the trigger function checks which node it is executing on to make sure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you set the trigger function to check which node it is executing on, to ensure
```

> that the trigger action only affects the desired node. For instance,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that the trigger action only affects the desired node. For example,
```

to have a statement-level trigger do something different on the access

> node compared to a data node, one can define a statement-level trigger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
node compared to a data node, you can define a statement-level trigger
```

> function as follows:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function like this:
```
